README.md, before:

# Markhor CEX Balance Service

FastAPI service to fetch balances from Gate.io, HTX, MEXC, and Crypto.com. Reads credentials from MongoDB, returns JSON via REST API.


## API Endpoints

- `GET /health` - Health check
- `GET /api/balances` - Get all balances (requires auth). Returns:
  - `accounts`: full balances grouped by exchange/account
  - `pricing`: live ALI/USD quote fetched from the CoinGecko Pro API (used by Google Sheets)
- `GET /api/balances/summary` - Simplified summary (requires auth). Returns:
  - `summary`: balances grouped by exchange → account → currency
  - `totals.by_exchange`: aggregated totals per exchange (e.g., overall ALI holdings on Gate.io)
  - `totals.overall`: network-wide totals per currency (ALI, USDT, USD…)
  - `pricing`: same ALI quote block as `/api/balances`
- `GET /api/dex/balances` - On-chain balances for the DEX ledger (requires auth). Returns:
  - `chains`: balances grouped by chain (ethereum/base/polygon/solana) → wallet label → asset
  - `prices`: USD price map for ALI/ETH/POL/SOL (and any stablecoins with fixed price)
- `GET /docs` - Swagger UI documentation

## Google Apps Script Setup

### CEX Ledger

See `google-apps-script/Code.gs` for the complete script.

1. Copy code to your Google Sheet (Extensions → Apps Script)
2. Update CONFIG with your server URL and auth token
3. Run `testAPIConnection()` to confirm connectivity (writes logs only)
4. Run `updateBalances()` manually (or schedule via Apps Script triggers)  
   - Script now writes:
     - Per-account ALI/USDT/USD balances (with carry-forward for accounts without API keys)
     - Per-exchange totals
     - Cumulative ALI / USDT (columns AR & AS)
     - ALI/USD price from `/api/balances.pricing` (column AX)
     - ALI USD valuation + total USD valuation columns (AT & AU) using the live price

### DEX Ledger

- Copy `google-apps-script/DEXCode.gs` into a separate Apps Script project (or another tab in the same sheet).
- Update `DEX_CONFIG` with your API URL/token if they differ.
- Run `updateDexBalances()` manually to add a new row to `DEX-ARB-Ledger`.
  - The script maps each EVM/Solana wallet to the corresponding ALI/USDC/WETH/WPOL/SOL columns in the sheet.
  - Totals, ALL section, price columns (ALI/ETH/POL/SOL), USD valuation, and Comments are computed automatically using `/api/dex/balances` output.

## Configuration

All settings in `backend/config.yml`:
- MongoDB connection (already configured)
- API auth token (change this!)
- Service port and logging
- `pricing.coingecko.*` – enable/disable CoinGecko Pro calls, base URL, API key, contract address, currency, timeout.  
  (The example config shows the ALI contract address; the real key lives only in your local `config.yml`.)

## Structure

```
backend/
  app/
    main.py              # FastAPI endpoints
    config.py            # YAML config loader
    database.py          # MongoDB client
    models.py            # Pydantic schemas
    services/
      exchange_service.py  # CCXT wrapper
  config.yml             # All configuration
  Dockerfile
docker-compose.yml
google-apps-script/
  Code.gs                # Google Sheet updater
```

## Local Testing

### Option 2: Python Virtual Environment
```bash
# Create venv
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # Windows: venv\Scripts\activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r backend/requirements.txt

# Run service
cd backend
python -m uvicorn app.main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8080 --reload


lsof -ti:8080 | xargs kill -9 && sleep 1 && python -m uvicorn app.main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8080 --reload
# Test in another terminal
python test_api.py
```

### Interactive API Testing
```bash
# Start service
docker-compose up -d

# Open Swagger UI in browser
open http://localhost:8080/docs

# Test endpoints interactively with built-in UI
```

## Server Deployment

### Prerequisites
- Linux server (Ubuntu 22.04+ recommended)
- Docker & Docker Compose installed
- Port 8080 accessible (or configure nginx reverse proxy)

### Deploy Steps

```bash
# 1. SSH to server
ssh user@your-server-ip

# 2. Clone/upload project
git clone your-repo
# or
scp -r Ledger-Update_Service user@server:/path/to/deploy/

# 3. Navigate to project
cd Ledger-Update_Service

# 4. Update configuration
nano backend/config.yml
# Change: api.auth_token to a secure token

docker-compose down

# 5. Start service
docker-compose up -d --build

# 6. Verify
curl http://localhost:8080/health

# 7. Check logs
docker-compose logs -f
```

### Configure Firewall
```bash
# Allow port 8080
sudo ufw allow 8080/tcp

# Or use nginx reverse proxy for HTTPS
sudo apt install nginx certbot python3-certbot-nginx
sudo nano /etc/nginx/sites-available/cex-balance
```

### Nginx Reverse Proxy (Optional)
```nginx
server {
    listen 80;
    server_name your-domain.com;
    
    location / {
        proxy_pass http://localhost:8080;
        proxy_set_header Host $host;
        proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
    }
}
```

```bash
# Enable site and get SSL
sudo ln -s /etc/nginx/sites-available/cex-balance /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/
sudo certbot --nginx -d your-domain.com
sudo systemctl reload nginx
```

### Auto-restart on Reboot
```bash
# Service already configured with restart: unless-stopped in docker-compose.yml
# Docker will auto-start on system reboot
```

### Update Deployment
```bash
cd Ledger-Update_Service
git pull  # or upload new files
docker-compose build --no-cache
docker-compose down
docker-compose up -d
```

## Troubleshooting

```bash
# Check logs
docker-compose logs -f

# Rebuild from scratch
docker-compose build --no-cache && docker-compose up -d

# Test MongoDB connection
mongosh "mongodb://USERNAME:PASSWORD@HOST:PORT/DATABASE?authSource=AUTH_SOURCE"

# Run automated tests
python test_api.py

# Check container status
docker ps | grep markhor

# Restart service
docker-compose restart

# View resource usage
docker stats markhor-cex-balance
```

Commit message:

Add dex pricing support and sheet updates

README.md, after:

# Markhor CEX Balance Service

FastAPI service to fetch balances from Gate.io, HTX, MEXC, and Crypto.com. Reads credentials from MongoDB, returns JSON via REST API.


## API Endpoints

- `GET /health` - Health check
- `GET /api/balances` - Get all balances (requires auth). Returns:
  - `accounts`: full balances grouped by exchange/account
  - `pricing`: live ALI/USD quote fetched from the CoinGecko Pro API (used by Google Sheets)
- `GET /api/balances/summary` - Simplified summary (requires auth). Returns:
  - `summary`: balances grouped by exchange → account → currency
  - `totals.by_exchange`: aggregated totals per exchange (e.g., overall ALI holdings on Gate.io)
  - `totals.overall`: network-wide totals per currency (ALI, USDT, USD…)
  - `pricing`: same ALI quote block as `/api/balances`
- `GET /api/dex/balances` - Returns on-chain balances for the EVM + Solana arbitrage wallets defined under `dex_sources`, plus a `prices` map (ALI/ETH/POL/SOL) fetched from CoinGecko so the Google Sheet can compute USD valuations without hitting third-party APIs directly. Uses the stored Alchemy RPC URLs and wallet/token metadata so the Google Sheet can pull everything with the same Bearer token.
- `GET /api/dex/balances` - On-chain balances for the DEX ledger (requires auth). Returns:
  - `chains`: balances grouped by chain (ethereum/base/polygon/solana) → wallet label → asset
  - `prices`: USD price map for ALI/ETH/POL/SOL (and any stablecoins with fixed price)
- `GET /docs` - Swagger UI documentation

## Google Apps Script Setup

### CEX Ledger

See `google-apps-script/Code.gs` for the complete script.

1. Copy code to your Google Sheet (Extensions → Apps Script)
2. Update CONFIG with your server URL and auth token
3. Run `testAPIConnection()` to confirm connectivity (writes logs only)
4. Run `updateBalances()` manually (or schedule via Apps Script triggers)  
   - Script now writes:
     - Per-account ALI/USDT/USD balances (with carry-forward for accounts without API keys)
     - Per-exchange totals
     - Cumulative ALI / USDT (columns AR & AS)
     - ALI/USD price from `/api/balances.pricing` (column AX)
     - ALI USD valuation + total USD valuation columns (AT & AU) using the live price

### DEX Ledger

- Copy `google-apps-script/DEXCode.gs` into a separate Apps Script project (or another tab in the same sheet).
- Update `DEX_CONFIG` with your API URL/token if they differ.
- Run `updateDexBalances()` manually to add a new row to `DEX-ARB-Ledger`.
  - The script maps each EVM/Solana wallet to the corresponding ALI/USDC/WETH/WPOL/SOL columns in the sheet.
  - Totals, ALL section, price columns (ALI/ETH/POL/SOL), USD valuation, and Comments are computed automatically using `/api/dex/balances` output.

## Configuration

All settings in `backend/config.yml`:
- MongoDB connection (already configured)
- API auth token (change this!)
- Service port and logging
- `pricing.coingecko.*` – enable/disable CoinGecko Pro calls, base URL, API key, contract address, currency, timeout.  
  (The example config shows the ALI contract address; the real key lives only in your local `config.yml`.)

## Structure

```
backend/
  app/
    main.py              # FastAPI endpoints
    config.py            # YAML config loader
    database.py          # MongoDB client
    models.py            # Pydantic schemas
    services/
      exchange_service.py  # CCXT wrapper
  config.yml             # All configuration
  Dockerfile
docker-compose.yml
google-apps-script/
  Code.gs                # Google Sheet updater
```

## Local Testing

### Option 2: Python Virtual Environment
```bash
# Create venv
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # Windows: venv\Scripts\activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r backend/requirements.txt

# Run service
cd backend
python -m uvicorn app.main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8080 --reload


lsof -ti:8080 | xargs kill -9 && sleep 1 && python -m uvicorn app.main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8080 --reload
# Test in another terminal
python test_api.py
```

### Interactive API Testing
```bash
# Start service
docker-compose up -d

# Open Swagger UI in browser
open http://localhost:8080/docs

# Test endpoints interactively with built-in UI
```

## Server Deployment

### Prerequisites
- Linux server (Ubuntu 22.04+ recommended)
- Docker & Docker Compose installed
- Port 8080 accessible (or configure nginx reverse proxy)

### Deploy Steps

```bash
# 1. SSH to server
ssh user@your-server-ip

# 2. Clone/upload project
git clone your-repo
# or
scp -r Ledger-Update_Service user@server:/path/to/deploy/

# 3. Navigate to project
cd Ledger-Update_Service

# 4. Update configuration
nano backend/config.yml
# Change: api.auth_token to a secure token

docker-compose down

# 5. Start service
docker-compose up -d --build

# 6. Verify
curl http://localhost:8080/health

# 7. Check logs
docker-compose logs -f
```

### Configure Firewall
```bash
# Allow port 8080
sudo ufw allow 8080/tcp

# Or use nginx reverse proxy for HTTPS
sudo apt install nginx certbot python3-certbot-nginx
sudo nano /etc/nginx/sites-available/cex-balance
```

### Nginx Reverse Proxy (Optional)
```nginx
server {
    listen 80;
    server_name your-domain.com;
    
    location / {
        proxy_pass http://localhost:8080;
        proxy_set_header Host $host;
        proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
    }
}
```

```bash
# Enable site and get SSL
sudo ln -s /etc/nginx/sites-available/cex-balance /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/
sudo certbot --nginx -d your-domain.com
sudo systemctl reload nginx
```

### Auto-restart on Reboot
```bash
# Service already configured with restart: unless-stopped in docker-compose.yml
# Docker will auto-start on system reboot
```

### Update Deployment
```bash
cd Ledger-Update_Service
git pull  # or upload new files
docker-compose build --no-cache
docker-compose down
docker-compose up -d
```

## Troubleshooting

```bash
# Check logs
docker-compose logs -f

# Rebuild from scratch
docker-compose build --no-cache && docker-compose up -d

# Test MongoDB connection
mongosh "mongodb://USERNAME:PASSWORD@HOST:PORT/DATABASE?authSource=AUTH_SOURCE"

# Run automated tests
python test_api.py

# Check container status
docker ps | grep markhor

# Restart service
docker-compose restart

# View resource usage
docker stats markhor-cex-balance
```
